# Pseudo-code

## 1. A function that returns the sum of two numbers

- initialise a function with 2 parameters (number 1 & number 2)
- return the sum of number 1 and number 2
- call function with 2 arguments, one for each number

START

RETURN number1 + number2

END

```js
function sum(number1, number2) {
	return number1 + number2;
}
```

## 2. A function that takes an array of strings, and returns a string that is all those strings concatenated together

_Given an array of strings called `strings`_

1. Casual

   - Declare a variable `newString` and set it to an empty string.

   - Iterate through the `strings` array.

   - Start with the first item in the array.

   - Set the limit for iteration based on the array length.

   - Iterate through the elements one by one.

   - For each element in the array, add the items inside to the `newString`
     variable.

   - Return the `newString`.

2. Formal

   - START

   - SET `newString` = empty string ""

   - WHILE iterator <= length of `strings`

     - SET currentItem = value within the `strings` array based on index

     - add currentItem to `newString` variable on each iteration

   - iterator = iterator + 1

   - RETURN `newString`

   - END

3. Code

```js
function concatString(strings) {
	let newString = "";

	for (let i = 0; i < strings.length; i++) {
		newString += strings[i];
	}
	return newString;
}
```

## 3. A method that takes an array of integers, and returns a new array with every other element from the original array, starting with the first element

### Given an array of integers called `integers`

1. Casual

- initialise a variable called `newInt` that is assigned to an empty array

- iterate through the `integers` array with conditions:
  - start at 0
  - loop through every other element and insert it into `integers` array
  - return the new array

2. Formal

- SET `newInt` to a an empty array
- WHILE iterator <= length of `integers`
  - start at 0
  - SET iteratedInteger = value that is iterated over
  - iterator = iterator + 2
  - add to newInt array
- RETURN `newInt` array

3. Code

```js
function newIntegers(int) {
	for (let i = 0; i < int.length; i += 2) {
		newInt.push(int[i]);
		console.log(newInt);
	}
	return newInt;
}

console.log(newIntegers(integers));
```

## 4. a function that determines the index of the 3rd occurrence of a given character in a string. For instance, if the given character is 'x' and the string is 'axbxcdxex', the function should return 6 (the index of the 3rd 'x'). If the given character does not occur at least 3 times, return null

- Given a variable `string` that holds "axbxcdxex"
- Given a variable `count` that points to a 0
- Iterate through the `string` one by one:

  - initialize the `current` variable that stores each of the strings when
    iterated
  - If the `current` variable is a match for the previous iteration, store

- Start with the first item in the array.
- Set the limit for iteration based on the array length.
- Iterate through the elements one by one.
- For each element in the array, add the items inside to the `newString`
  variable.
- Return the `newString`.

```js

```

## 5. a function that takes two arrays of numbers and returns the result of merging the arrays. The elements of the first array should become the elements at the even indexes of the returned array, while the elements of the second array should become the elements at the odd indexes.

example:

```js
merge([1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]); // => [1, 4, 2, 5, 3, 6]
```

### Casual

Input: two array collections of numbers `arr1` & `arr2`

Output: a single merged array from the values of the two input arrays: arr1
being at the even indexes and arr2 at the odd indexes.

Declare `newArr` and initialise it to an empty array

Iterate over `arr1` with loop iterator `i`

- target indexes (0, 2, 4, 6, 8. etc.)
- `i` values are (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, etc.)
- transform `i` value to target index on each iteration
- push to a new variable `evenIndexes`

End iteration

### Formal

Input: two array collections of numbers `arr1` & `arr2`

Output: a single merged array from the values of the two input arrays: arr1
being at the even indexes and arr2 at the odd indexes.

Declare `newArr` and initialise it to an empty array Declare `evenIndex` and
initialize to 0

Iterate over `arr1` with iterator `i`

- declare `currNum` and initialise it to the current element of `arr1` as
  `arr1[i]`
- assign `currNum` to `newArr` at index `evenIndex`
- increment `evenIndex` by 2

End iteration

return `mergedArray`
